Located in the historical and picturesque city of Hangzhou, Zhejiang University is a prestigious institution of higher education with a long history. Qiushi Academy, the predecessor of Zhejiang University, was founded in 1897 and was one of the earliest modern academies of higher learning established in China. In 1928, the academy was named National Zhejiang University. During the war time in 1940s, Zhejiang University moved to Zunyi, Meitan and other places in succession and stayed in West China for seven years. In 1946, Zhejiang University returned to Hangzhou. In 1952, due to a nationwide restructuring of universities, Zhejiang University underwent a reshuffling of disciplines. Some departments merged into other universities and Chinese Academy of Sciences. The remaining departments were divided and developed to become 4 specialized higher education institutions, namely former Zhejiang University, Hangzhou University, Zhejiang Agricultural University and Zhejiang Medical University. In 1998, the four universities sharing the same ancestor merged to form the new Zhejiang University and set a new goal - to develop into a world-class university. In its 116-year history, Zhejiang University has always been committed to cultivating talent with excellence, advancing science and technology, serving for social development, and promoting culture, with the spirit best manifested in the university motto "Seeking the Truth and Pioneering New Trails".
Zhejiang University is a comprehensive research university with distinctive features and a national as well as international impact. Research at Zhejiang University spans 12 academic disciplines, covering philosophy, economics, law, education, literature, history, art, science, engineering, agriculture, medicine, management and etc. With 7 faculties and 37 colleges/schools, Zhejiang University has 14 primary and 21secondary national leading academic disciplines. 
Zhejiang University has long been holding the educational philosophy of putting people foremost, cultivating all-round competence in students, seeking the truth and pioneering new trails in search of excellence, and is committed to developing future leaders with an international perspective. Zhejiang University has turned out a large number of outstanding talents in its history. There are more than 160 alumni elected members of Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Academy of Engineering. With educational thoughts advancing with the times, Zhejiang University paces the whole nation in educational reforms. Rich campus culture, advanced teaching facilities and a wide range of international exchanges create favorable conditions for students' development.
Zhejiang University focuses on assiduous study and research, and science and technological innovation. It has launched a number of international high-end academic platforms and gathered masters, scholars and high-level research teams in various disciplines. In recent years, Zhejiang University maintains a leading position in China in output indicators including publications, patents and etc., and has made abundant important achievements in science, technology, humanities and social sciences. Zhejiang University always takes initiative in catering for national and regional needs, and exerts itself to become an influential high-level source of innovation and a pool of talents. In 2013, research fund at Zhejiang University amounted to 3.009 billion Yuan. 116 projects under research have each secured a grant of more than 10 million.
As of  Jun., 2014, there are a total of more than 45,678 full-time students enrolled at Zhejiang University, including approximately 13,799 graduate students, 8,577 Ph.D candidates, and 23,302 undergraduates. In addition, there are about 3,407 international students currently attending Zhejiang University. Among its approximate 3,350 standing faculty members, more than 1,336 faculty members have title of professor. Other important facts and figures are as follows: 13 members of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, 16members of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, 67 experts in State "1000-elite Programs", 36 chief scientists of national 973 projects, 94 Chair Professors in Chang Jiang Scholars Program, and 100 scholars awarded with National Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars. With five campuses, namely Zijingang, Yuquan, Xixi, Huajiachi and Zhijiang campus, Zhejiang University encompasses an area of 4,503,741 square meters with school buildings covering 2,072,303 square meters of floor space. The university library holds a collection of more than 6.58 million volumes. In addition, Zhejiang University has 7high-level affiliated hospitals.
As a national university standing by River Qiantang, Zhejiang University is striving to build itself into an innovative comprehensive research university with a world-class status. Zhejiang University will be adhering to the spirit of seeking the truth and pioneering new trails, dedicating itself to creating and disseminating knowledge, inheriting and advancing civilization, serving and leading the society, and promoting national prosperity, social development and human progress.
